# [Introduction to 6.00](https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-00sc-introduction-to-computer-science-and-programming-spring-2011/unit-1/lecture-1-introduction-to-6.00/)
prof. John Guttag

### Knowledge:
- declarative: composed of statements of fact. _eg. y=x^(1/2) <=> y*y=x_ . Doesn't tell how to solve it. Guess & check.
- imperative: about how to accomplish something. Steps like a cookbook.
    - **Algorithm**: description of how to perform a computation.
        - instructions: steps that can be executed.
        - flow of control: order we execute them.
        - termination condition: when to stop.

**fixed program computers**: designed to execute one kind of algorithm.
**stored program computers**: the instructions of the program are also data.

**interpreter**: program that can execute any set of instructions.

_Alan Turing - 6 primitive instructions_
programming language provides a set of primitive instructions

### Language
- syntax: which characters and symbols constitute a well-formed string.
- static semantics: which strings are meaningfull.
- semantics: looks at strings that are syntactic correct and static semantic correct and assigns a real meaning to them.

**programs might**:
- crash
- never stop (infinite loop)
- complete & produce wrong answer

- **interpreted**:
source code -> checker -> interpreter -> output
    - better error tracking
- **compiled**:
source code -> checker/compiler -> object code* -> interpreter -> output
    - *compiled to object code: translated to a language closer to what the computer knows how to interpret.
    - more efficient.